As a cloud architect,
you should be able to look at in architecture or
AWS account and determine any holes or gaps related to access control.
What are some of the key questions to ask around identity and access management?
First and foremost, we need to be asking how
users are managed in the AWS accounts we are working with.
Is there a central trusted identity that is going to manage user provisioning,
deprovisioning, credential enforcement, and role segmentation?
Or are different teams managing user access disparately with a loose process?
Is identity federation in place,
so that the organization as a whole governs which users are part of which roles?
Are processes in place at an organizational level to ensure that when
a user no longer needs access than
their accesses are revoked from all cloud environments?
Are users part of the correct groups,
allowing them to have permissions to
only those actions that they need to do for their role?
Are the permissions for these roles fine tuned to be the
least privileged in order to reduce the blast radius?
Are we using temporary credentials, one-time passwords,
or multi-factor authentication for all layers of access?
My approach to start thinking with the security mindset is to ask yourself,
what if credentials of the user were to be stolen or compromised?
What's the worst that can happen?
In order to have a good sense of how secure you have designed the environment,
make sure to identify areas of your infrastructure and architecture which would be
vulnerable to data loss or other malicious activity in the event of unauthorized access.